---
title: Frictionless Data Community Call March 2024
date: 2024-04-03
tags: ["events", "community-hangout"]
category: events
image: /img/blog/FD-standards-update-03-24.png
description: At our last call we continued talking about the standards update, as we are getting close to the v2 draft release...
author: Sara Petti
---
On our last community call was on March 21<sup>st</sup>, we continued discussing the Frictionless Standards update with community members. As a reminder, thanks to the generous support of [NLnet](https://nlnet.nl/), the Frictionless core team, together with a working group composed of members of the community, is now working on a v2 of the Frictionless Standards. Read the [announcement blog](https://frictionlessdata.io/blog/2023/11/15/frictionless-specs-update/) to know more about it.

## Working group discussion

We are very excited **we are getting closer to the first Data Package v2 draft release**! We closed almost 30 issues already, and only have a few pending items to address for [the draft release](https://github.com/frictionlessdata/specs/milestone/6), mainly to do with Table Dialect (see issue [#344](https://github.com/frictionlessdata/specs/issues/344), [#697](https://github.com/frictionlessdata/specs/issues/697), [#681](https://github.com/frictionlessdata/specs/issues/681)). During the call we discussed with the working group how to split the last remaining items in order to release the v2 draft already by the beginning of April.

For a full overview of the items that the working group tackled on the call, you can have a look at our [live tracker on GitHub](https://github.com/frictionlessdata/datapackage/pull/39), or watch the recording linked here below.

A few issues were moved out of the draft release to be rather included [in the final release](https://github.com/frictionlessdata/specs/milestone/7), which is planned for June. One example is versioning, which was [discussed in the last call](https://frictionlessdata.io/blog/2024/03/01/community-call/#working-group-discussion). As versioning is a brand new element, it will require more time to be tackled. We are currently working on a solid proposal to discuss with the working group next month. 

# Join us in March!
Next community call is on April 25<sup>th</sup>, join us to hear all the exciting news about the [Frictionless standards](https://datapackage.org/) update! 

Do you have something you would like to present to the community at one of the upcoming calls? Let us know via [this form](https://forms.gle/AWpbxyiGESNSUFK2A), or come and tell us on our [community chat on Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/frictionlessdata/shared_invite/zt-17kpbffnm-tRfDW_wJgOw8tJVLvZTrBg)(also accessible via a [Matrix bridge](https://matrix.to/#/#frictionlessdata:matrix.okfn.org) if you prefer to use an open protocol).

You can sign up for the call already [here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeuNCopxXauMkrWvF6VHqOyHMcy54SfNDOseVXfWRQZWkvqjQ/viewform?usp=sf_link). Do you want to share something with the community? Let us know when you sign up. 

# Call Recording
Here is the recording of the full call:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/0q-tCtYL6N0?si=PZ_daE45EwlFc4gG" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>


# Thank you
On a final note, we would like to thank all community members that joined the call and that keep all these discussions alive, and particularly to those who are putting a lot of thinking and hard work into the specs working group. Without you, all of this would not be possible.
